documentation for sag-tension calculation for dead head span and catenary model (#24)
phlowers/mechaphlowers: docs/user_guide/ug_state_change.md

# State change for dead head span

## External loads

![Image not available](./assets/cable_external_loads.drawio.png "External loads on cable image")

There are 3 external loads:

- $Q_w$ the wind load:  
    - $Q_w = P_w (D + 2 \cdot e)$
    - Depending on cable diameter $D$, ice thickness $e$ and wind pressure $P_w$
- $Q_{ice}$ the ice weight:  

>     - $Q_{ice} = 6000 \cdot \pi \cdot e (e+D)$

Author: Ok ! How this variable could be named ? ice_density ?

>     - $Q_{ice} = 6000 \cdot \pi \cdot e (e+D)$

Author: To summarize the discussions with @rvduc: I'll take ice density and rho_ice

    - Depending on the cable diameter $D$ and ice thickness $e$
- $\lambda$ the cable linear weight

The resultant of forces, R is equal to: $R = \sqrt{(Q_{ice}+\lambda)^2+ Q_w^2}$

## Load coefficient

The load coefficient is then defined as: $m = R/\lambda$

> Which has been already defined for the relation between the sagging parameter, $\lambda$ and the horizontal tension:

Author: It is in the cable model part. I will rephrase the sentence

$$p = \frac{T_h}{m \cdot \lambda}$$

## Load angle

The load angle $\beta$ can be calculated as:

$$ \beta = \arctan \frac{Q_w}{Q_{ice} + \lambda}$$

## State change algorithm

> ### Definition

Reviewer: I think we could remove this title
Why "definition" ?

> The problem to solve is to calculate the new horizontal tension when an additional load is placed on the cable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem to solve is to calculate the new horizontal tension when additional loads and/or thermal changes are applied on the cable.
```

1. calculate the new beta and define the new cable plane

> 2. from $a'$ and $b'$ calculate $L'$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. calculate $a'$ and $b'$ and then calculate $L'$
```

> 3. There are two ways to calculate the relative elongation of the cable:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. There are two ways to calculate the strain of the cable:  
```

    - From $L_0$ definition: ${\varepsilon_{total}}_L = \frac{\Delta L}{L_0} = \frac{L' - L_0}{L_0}$

>     - From elongation relation with $T_{mean}: ${\varepsilon_{total}}_T = \frac{T_{mean}}{E\cdot S} + \theta \cdot \alpha_{th}$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - From strain-stress relation with $T_{mean}: ${\varepsilon_{total}}_T = \frac{T_{mean}}{E\cdot S} + \theta \cdot \alpha_{th}$
```

4. ${\varepsilon_{total}}_L$ and ${\varepsilon_{total}}_T$ are depending on $T_h$. An error function on $T_h$ estimation can be written:
    - $f(T_h) = {\varepsilon_{total}}_L - {\varepsilon_{total}}_T$

### Example resolution method: Newton-Raphson schema

> Problem: finding the root of $f(T_h) = 0$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Problem: find the root of $f(T_h) = 0$
```

> 5. Defining numeric derivative approximation $f'(T_h0) = \frac{f(T_h0 + \zeta) - f(T_h0)}{\zeta}$ with $\zeta = 10N$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Use numeric derivative approximation $f'(T_h0) = \frac{f(T_h0 + \zeta) - f(T_h0)}{\zeta}$ with $\zeta = 10N$
```

> 6. The following series is converging to the result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The following series converges to the result:
```

$${T_h}_{n+1} = {T_h}_{n} - \frac{f({T_h}_{n})}{f'({T_h}_{n})}$$

> with ${T_h}_{0} = T_h0$ the horizontal tension in the vertical plane.

Reviewer: It is possible to be in the initial frame and not in the initial condition, for example with thermal changes.
T_h0 is the initial tension of the sagging.
